here at the lonus tech technical
institute of forc induction and funky
lettuce we've been working tirelessly on
a problem that has stumped computer
Engineers for decades you see the turbo
button turbo boost and Turbo S have one
thing in common they have no freaking
turbo but our best and brightest Alex
here has found the solution Alex it came
to me in a dream this turbo this
laptop behold the world's first
turbocharged
laptop brought to you by red
magic
[Music]
woo this right here is a conventional
turbocharger for a car specifically the
Volkswagen Golf R the exhaust gases blow
into this side right here spinning this
little turbine right here then there's a
shaft going through the middle that
connects to this compressor which in
turn compresses air that is blown into
your engine right up here more air plus
more fuel equals more power excellent
but also problematic you see our red
magic Titan 16 Pro powerful machine
though it is does not produce exhaust
gases so to make Alex's dream of reality
we need an electric turbo now terrible
electric turbos are plentiful on eBay
AliExpress and wish.com but we wanted an
electric turbo that legitimately works
so we got this meet the torque amp a 6.7
horsepower electric turbo that blows
enough air to substantially increase a
car's horsepower this says Alex to write
disclaimer about turbo versus
supercharger oh yeah technically this
could be considered a supercharger
because it is driven by this and not
exhaust gases but they say turbo on the
website so we're going with
turbo whatever you want to call it this
thing is absolutely flipping wild I mean
look at the geometry on these fan blades
I have never seen that each blade is two
blades I guess to increase pressure
probably something to do with compressor
efficiency I I don't really know then
there's the motor which maybe I'm just
out of the loop but I thought would be a
lot bigger given that it's 5,000
wants and there's the super lightweight
construction because we only need the
one side it can be made out of cast
aluminum instead of also having to have
Steel in it with that said it's going to
cost you elsewhere because you've got to
power the thing and that's where the
rest of this kit comes in what's the
whole thing Ren you both
$2,978 oh my God this power box though
keep 2 cm free for cooling do not block
the
holes this is going to be fun this looks
fairly self-explanatory colorcoded 48
Vols out I assume yep harness goes into
the turbo or supercharger whatever you
want to call it okay yes our motor
controller right here so we get our DC
AC 48 volts okay and I assume this needs
to plug into some kind of control thing
this is a temperature sensor actually
so if this starts getting too hot the
motor controller will be like we're
stopping by that's something that's
important to note because this is
designed for use in a vehicle only when
you're accelerating hard it's only rated
for 1 second of boost for 10 seconds of
recharge so using it to cool a laptop
continuously well it's not going to be
continuous continuous but you know we'll
see how it goes yeah uh make sure the
red dots are lined up it says explicitly
in the instruction manual to make sure
that they're lined up they're lined also
torque amp excellent instruction manual
like I don't say that very often but it
was actually very informative dude I am
jazzed like I am legit extremely excited
about this this may not be the dumbest
thing we've ever done but it's up there
it might be the dumbest you think so
well we haven't had other things
spoilers that actively heat themselves
up that we've tried to cool a computer
with before but anyway we'll wor with
that later for now here's a 1200 W DC
power supply plugged into the power
input side here is that enough to wait
but I thought this is a 5,000 W Motor so
what they do is you have your 12 volts
well actually like 14 volts from your
car that goes into this charges this up
and then the lithium battery that's in
here is what powers your turbo got it so
that's why it can't run continuously it
actually has a battery in here yeah and
you also don't want to be drawing 5,000
WS from your car because you will drain
your battery and your alternator will
probably not be happy at all right you
have experience with that I
do do you want to know how this is
supposed to work is this something to do
with the accelerator yeah you literally
just put this under your gas pedal when
you go all the way down she click and it
goes there are much better ways to do it
like you can have full ECU configuration
using this guy right here but if you
just want to do it for
dirty and I guess that's how we're doing
it yeah neat one final thing before you
power it on oh yes oh we want to filter
the air going into it yes that makes
sense it's both to make sure that no
dust and crap gets in there hurts the
turbine also to protect us cuz like you
don't want like your Willie get sucked
in there real bad time
or a really good time for a really short
period of time really
bad that's on its own circuit that's on
okay now power buttons here
uhhuh okay do you want to hit the
thing I do okay so how long is like safe
to hit it for oh I don't know you can
just hammer it if you
want should we have earring protection
in probably right well we can hit didn't
see
okay
yes
holy
bananas that is crazy that's through the
filter yeah well I mean it would add
restriction not very
much
some let's get earplugs I know I
shouldn't be that surprised because
that's kind of the benefit
of an electric motor is that you've got
that immediate torque and immediate ramp
to full power but holy crap it does blow
it it does force the induction that was
crazy you should hit it again I I mean I
will I will I will hold on I want to put
I want to put something on the end so we
can kind of see what's what's shaking
here hold on just give me give me a
second give me a second I got I got a
concept I got I've got a concept if
you're wondering ing yes that technique
is why I have three
kids okay okay I got to feel it I got to
feel
it the Air's not hot but it sure as heck
isn't cool do you want to explain to the
people why that would be before we do
that I want to play with these but
before we play with those we need to go
and have a little listen to some turbo
sound so you know what's good and what's
bad right now everything in the engine
is as it should be so we'll just have a
little listen to what the turbo would
sound like so you
hear okay that's fine you know you just
hear that P that you're hearing that is
the diverter valve this little guy's job
is that when your throttle body closes
while you're making boost it just
diverts all that boost somewhere else
and makes that fun sh noise on other
cars you might have a blowoff valve
instead but let's just come in here take
this plug oh there we go this is almost
definitely going to give me a check
engine light but my warranty is already
very void as you can probably tell so
we're not too concerned about that I'll
just clear it later just so I'm clear
what you've done is you've made it so
the valve won't open correct huh yeah
probably don't do this cool unless you
want fun noise and turbo
damage you can't have a warant warning
that includes unless you want fun well
that's not a good warning okay you'll
hear it in a second and you will agree
that it's very fun don't blow up your
car I'm not going to I'm not going to go
full Boost but now if we listen we
get oh so that's compressor surge that
is when the air that you've been
compressing blows back through the turbo
so it's very
fun right very very fun probably pretty
hard on it though it's not ideal it's
not so bad in this situation where we're
not at full Boost and you know you're
not making power once that throttle
body's closed but with an electric turbo
like the one that we have back there
you're going to generate power yeah if
there is a restriction and it starts
blowing back through you have an
electric motor that is not going to stop
so it will just kill itself so if we
start
hearing that kind of a noise we stop we
stop
and now I have an engine code to clear
if those nozzles or that laptop turn out
to be too restrictive I made this it is
two ball valves JB welded into some 3D
printed stuff please tell me you at
least used like a high strength filament
or something no but like you it's pretty
good these days I did a lot of infill
okay I got these off of Amazon they're
very very cheap intercooler tubing cool
then you just throw a worm Drive clamp
on there and that's not going anywhere
this is even cured like if there's
actual pressure in here these fittings
are going to go flying off like a
bullet that looks dangerous now it
really does doesn't it it was already
dangerous now it just looks the part
here's a pair of safety glasses instead
of putting them on my face uh Alex go
ahead and hit it
oh they're over here buddy they done got
Yol across the room what are you using
that
for what are you doing what
please okay do
it why because I want to be more
portable
yes
nice oh that's the good stuff yep okay
throw this one on the the
arm that's going
to no it'll be fine it'll be
fine do do it you cowards we go I'll be
fine I've done worse for my craft red
magic Titan 16 Pro features a full metal
CNC chassis an Intel core9 14900 HX plus
an RTX 460 it's got dual fans plus highs
speec quad copper heat pipes and phase
change silicone grease a 1080p cam
camera with Windows hello dtsx Ultra
audio 16 gigs of 5600 megat transfer
pers second high frequency memory plus a
1 TB pcie Gen 4 SSD it's got a 2 and
1/2k screen with 100% dcip 3 color gamut
coverage and the cooling is basically
good than we need but that doesn't mean
it can't be gooder so we're going to
attach this to in a minute but first
let's have some fun what do you think
can I close the lid of this laptop with
this probably okay okay let's
try
yep oh look we got pom poms
dude this is like the most Juiced up
leaf blower ever watch this watch
this and they're gone dude dude this
more like a rock
blower and the best part is we have
haven't even tried the tight nozzle yet
I think it's time let's see what she can
do to this duct tape roll think I can
get in that garbage
can
w d perfect got
[Applause]
nothing you know I think she's actually
more restricted huh I think she's less
powerful this
way well that's a Downer but it allows
us to direct it a bit more for example
we could spin the turbine in
here wo look at it Go and
this the bottom line is it moves a lot
of
air let's cool a
PC you're going so slow Alex you're
killing me here
a
jeez we obviously can't fit this inside
the machine well I've made the world's
first ever turbo manifold for a laptop
so you've just taken the entire air
intake at the bottom and made this it
looks like a freaking vacuum cleaner
head Alex it really does I am a little
worried about bolting this on though
like does this have enough structural
rigidity for that oh well there plates
right there ah oh there we go so that
goes on the inside all of those are
threaded holes boom make sure that you
line up the broken tap with the spot
that doesn't have a hole
drilled just like
so sure and then in terms of the seal
are we just going to allow for some
leakage here now we've got an O-ring 330
second it goes on the other side in all
seriousness making your own o-ring is
not as weird as you'd think all you need
is par o-ring handbook you just go in
there they tell you how big to make this
little hole right here a little Groove
Chuck it in you're done nice easy oh
nice okay I got this one that helps a
lot that's an important one right there
okay we got the two on the ends oh yeah
oh bud no we're good I'm good with this
question for you y um now there are
spikes going into our motherboard yep no
do you want both colors or an angle
grinder angle grinder all right
so this one's still intact I guess we
have a sacrificial lamb somewhere oh I
was going to swap the bottoms on that
one oh perfect yeah are they all the
same y nice thank you red magic for that
just use all the same
screws love to see it also very nice in
here they have upgradeable Ram there's a
free SSD slot right there over top of
your other SSD oh damn some chunky heat
pipes that's about all that you can
expect these days really do we unplug
the fans cuz we can't run this
continuously so when we're not running
it having fans would be pretty nice but
we also do risk way over spinning these
and blowing something up didn't you test
that though in the dark fantasies video
yeah I did also test it and I blew a
bunch of compressed air into it and was
totally fine if we kill it do we just
swap them and not tell
anyone yeah
okay okay so we leave them in so that's
it then this just goes on here now
yeah it might have some clearance
problems nothing that can't be overcome
by forcing screws it's funny because
there is a very real benefit to the
metal chassis if we were trying to do
this with a plastic bottom we'd risk
cracking it yeah red magic thought of
this this exactly what their Engineers
imagined do we have like a like a stand
or do we have any kind of concept there
uh I did bring over some feet that I was
going to attach to the bottom and then I
forgot about that until right now cool
so then you do or don't have
them uh let's see um you know what
though Alex it may end up that the turbo
just kind of supports
it oh I was going to have it piped over
like here somewhere oh we have a whole
box of intercooler piping Wick at smart
there you go oh dude oh dude that's sick
okay theoretically we haven't really
changed much here so so I'm going to
boot it up the fans didn't collide with
all the stuff that we just put in there
so that's nice perfect let's pop out CPU
core
temperatures GPU temperature is there
any other temp sensor we could maybe I
mean we could sure we could grab our SSD
temperature why not right yeah I'm sure
there'll be air flow over that there
there's going to be air everywhere okay
let's fire up fur mark this is going to
get our GPU a little toasty so here's
our GPU temperature she's Rising
it's also still 44 degrees that's pretty
good yeah give her a sec give her a sec
she's going to she's going to go up oh
dude GPU is um kind of running too cool
I guess the 4060 is pretty efficient we
might have to hit the CPU if we want to
see something actually run at a high
temperature but what we can do still is
we can see if more air flow will help
this GPU
oh my
god did it get hotter or colder I
couldn't even tell it went down oh wow
oh yeah I do wonder if we may have
unseated something our temps are higher
than they were before we ever turned on
the turbo though yeah they are I wonder
why let's watch GPU temps here I'm just
I'm going to hold it down this time okay
GPU temps hot spot 55.2 here we go
it's going
down now Alex has explained this before
there is a limit when you're designing a
heat sink to how much benefit there is
from additional air flow is that what
we're up against or is it because the
air is so warm it's probably a bit of
both there is a problem where turbos
create a lot of heat for one it's
compressing the gas so PV equals nrt
pressure goes up a bunch so does your
temperature same thing as like
compressed air can but in Reverse you
know how this get super duper cold but
also just simply like there will be
friction against the turbine housing
against all the little fins and stuff
like that that also adds in Heat against
the hosing this tube is at 36 it was at
ambient a second ago yeah so do we have
a solution for that oh we do we most
certainly do we not only have the
world's first turbocharged laptop but
also the world's first front mount
intercooler laptop this thing was sent
over by CTS there are local guys here in
Langley and it just so happens that this
one fits a Mark 7 and a half GTI I don't
know how that
happened really what what's happening to
it after we're done this project we'll
see I don't
know did you explain this to them
it's a fan why don't I try then this
intercooler is basically an air-to-air
heat exchanger so we're going to take
the hot air that's coming out of our
turbo and we are going to cool that hot
air as it goes through here into our
laptop and we're going to cool that air
using ambient temperature
air using this fan I was thinking that
we put it on this side because if you
remember this video These fans are very
very dangerous mhm these are the guys
that the carrots right across the room
oh yeah yeah that's
good that what are you doing what do you
mean what am I doing what are you
doing you need room for second metal fan
oh okay I like how we are going to have
so much more power going towards cooling
this laptop than the laptop will ever
even think about drawing each one of
these is 2 10 wats this thing's
5,000 the back of this setup is going to
be extremely dangerous once we turn this
on we do not want to be hanging around
back here if anything gets in these fans
it will get cut off I'm talking fingers
Willies you name it I think she's on For
Better or For Worse
Alex it's working yeah they're not
pulling much at the top but that kind of
makes sense and it looks like they're
not suck the duct tape in so okay we
don't go back there anymore that's it
that's the whole thing now that we're
switched over to gaming mode and we're
hitting our CPU you can see temperatures
are ramping up pretty fast with the
stock
fans it is drawing 100 WTS on the CPU
that's pretty good let's see if we can
do anything about that you ready
yeah W there we go let's go he's droing
so oh my
god oh
damn gee Works CTS knows what they're
doing that is the best example of like
an aircooler I've ever seen we went
straight back to the office mode
temperatures like straight back oh oh
man this pipe is hot right here well
yeah I bet so that's 40 okay this one
on the other side 23 dude it works great
it works really good so we were probably
just completely counteracting any
benefit we were getting from the airflow
by blowing such hot
air dude this works it works good want
another hit oh yeah I can give you
another hit I'm afraid to put my face
near this keyboard the key might take my
eye out here we go
oh we overpower protection our poor
power supply which actually makes sense
because we have so much restriction on
the outlet now now what I'd actually
like to see is if our CPU package power
is willing to go a little higher if we
throw this much cooling at it but it
probably won't cuz we're already well
under control but let's see let's see
oh that is so cool to show you guys how
much air is being pushed through this
laptop I have an idea ah ah okay I'm
going to put this one next to the left
exhaust and we're going to put these
ones above the keyboard
oh the track pad the poor track pad oh
my God okay we have to game on it right
yeah we have to game on it we obviously
have to game on it I'm really impressed
at how well this removes heat from the
air I don't know why but I just I
thought that wouldn't be able to do much
to that volume of air oh no that that's
what it's made for that's a it's a sick
intercooler that thing's good for 450
horsepower apparently now it's time to
actually game on this thing I'm sitting
at around oh wow 35 on the GPU 73 on
the CPU well we don't really need it
but hit me hit
it we're down to 60 on the CPU oh yeah
that's crazy we blew off one of the pom
poms very practical
very oh she's hot
dude oh that's fine 70 yeah okay that's
on the outside of the motor housing Lord
only knows what's going on inside and it
was pretty cool of red magic to be Bros
and just sponsor this video sight unseen
and let us do this to their poor
machine yeah I've definitely seen
happier laptops than this one when you
go
but it held up and look the trackpad
still works it works yeah you can do
horrible things to the chassis of this
and it's
fine you can check it out at the link
down
below and if you guys enjoyed this video
maybe you can check out the one where
Alex and I hooked up the biggest fan
we've ever seen to a PC or those other
big fans that put a bunch of carrot in
them don't forget about the other other
big fans when it blew the panel off oh
yeah